Technicians in Stalker Camps can upgrade your weapons, suits, and helmets.
You need a detector to search for artifacts. The best detectors make searching easier and may even detect more valuable artifacts.
One of the most common threats in The Zone is radiation. Serious exposure will harm your health and can be terminal if not treated adequately.
A detector is the only reliable way of checking anomalous areas for artifacts.
Artifacts are not usually static: they tend to move within an anomalous area. Gun ho attempts to chase down an artifact will lead you into an anomaly in no time.
New artifacts may appear in anomalous areas that you’ve already explored after an emission.
You can leave your things in a personal box at Loner Town to avoid dragging around unnecessary stuff.
Your PDA is your lifeline. Not only is it your communication device, but it is your link to the entire zone. Keep it safe.
To look in your backpack, press "F1".
If you have weapon attachments, simply drag them ontop of an appropriate weapon to attach them.
The Zone has a life of its own, which means that there’s always a chance of bumping into mutants or enemy stalkers in areas that you thought were safe.
Weapons and protective suits will wear out quickly in the harsh conditions of the Zone. Visit a technician to ensure their longevity.
Don't underestimate pistols. They provide considerable stopping power and can be very effective against poorly armored targets.
Shotguns are close-combat weapons. The further your enemy is from you, the less effective they are.
The rich aren't the only ones making jobs. If you need something done, someone will be desperate enough to do it - for enough rubles.
Your knife is ineffective against enemies armed with firearms. Use it in close combat or for a stealthy kill.
In addition to their useful effects, most artifacts are also radioactive. This can be compensated for by using artifacts that absorb radiation.
You can bring up the context menu for items in your backpack by placing your mouse over the required item and pressing the right mouse button.
Some medical products increase the body's resistance to harmful effects. Using such products can save your life during missions into anomalous areas.
Low endurance can make you immobile and vulnerable to enemy attacks at crucial moments.